hey everyone my name is nyo olsen style
and today i'm going to be talking about
how to use google sheets to analyze your
amazon ad reports and really quickly
combine duplicate search term data so in
this video what i'll cover is the search
term report you know where do you find
it how do you use it what is it for also
go over some of the differences between
the filter view versus pivot tables and
google sheets and of course i'll go
through a full walk through and full
recap of how to get started and set up
and start using pivot tables as soon as
you finish this video so let's get
started with the search and report okay
so if you're already deep into amazon
ppc you should be living breathing and
dying for the search term report okay
you should be obsessed with it and the
reason being is that this is one of the
most insightful reports that you can
download directly from the amazon
advertising console um and it'll give
you a great macro and micro view
into your amazon advertising performance
so it's just overall an extremely
comprehensive report to figure out where
your results are coming from how you can
expand and also how you can optimize
first up it's really important to
clarify the differences between a
keyword and a search term because you
can also download a keyword report from
amazon
so keywords are the relevant words or
phrases that you are bidding on okay
these are the keywords that are in your
campaigns they're either broad phrase or
exact match and a search term is the
direct search coming from your amazon
shoppers who are clicking on your ads
okay that means it's going to include
misspellings it's going to include you
know super specific weird searches like
a gift for my 89 year old grandma who
really enjoys walking and she has three
dogs okay you'll see that as well
because they're directly coming from
shoppers
so the session report is so valuable
because it has a list of all of those
search terms and which keywords
triggered them which resulted in at
least one ad click
okay and you can download this for a
custom date range up to the last 65 days
and it is currently available for
sponsored products sponsored brand and
sponsor brand video ad types okay so no
sponsored display search and reports are
available right now in 2021. cool so it
is really easy to find the search term
reports uh it is the exact same for both
seller central and the advertising
console for vendors okay you're going to
go to the left hand side
click on the reports tab it'll take you
to the screen where you will click the
big yellow button that says create
reports
and then it'll bring you to a
configuration page you then click on one
of the top three campaign types uh click
on the most important part this is a
report type search term and then
whichever report period you like okay
and then back to basics you know you'll
go into a fresh google sheets document
go file import and then put in the new
search term report so when you've done
that it should look a little bit like
this okay here's something i prepared
earlier now this is a very real search
term report the data's all real i've
just edited and changed the customer
search terms and of course campaign
names and things
um but it will look like this okay and
it will have a lot a lot of rows of data
now very often in in order to kind of
quickly organize the search term report
you'll often go into the filter function
and that's where you'll create a filter
and then of course based on whichever
metric you'd like to see you will use
the sort functions of a to z and z to a
or a c c to a okay and a being the
smallest lowest number okay so if we
want to see uh the search terms um kind
of displayed by the
highest amount of sales we will go
like this now
what can happen here is that you look at
the top and you say that this search
term nike uh brought in four thousand
dollars in ad sales now that's all well
and good but the thing is is that you'll
see nike comes up again here
uh it comes up again here
and so that's where you get those kind
of duplicates coming into your search
term data the reason why this happens is
because
it will essentially be triggered by
different keywords
different match types and different
campaigns so if we have exact match nike
here and exact match nike here they
would essentially be coming from
different campaigns so campaign a and
campaign c they can both have the exact
same keywords in there and they can both
be bringing in sales via that search
term so we want to be able to say that
the customer search of nike brought in x
amount of sales and know that that is
counting for all of the different
campaigns and so that is where the pivot
table will be very essential to getting
that done very very quickly so this is
what i prepared earlier this is what it
will look like in the pivot table you'll
see that you've got the customer search
terms and you've got all the combined
data that you want okay so let me show
you how to set this up it is very very
simple
so you're going to go to your search and
report click on the data drop down menu
and click on pivot table and then create
then you'll come to this page where it
look a bit empty and a bit scary but
you'll just focus on these three things
okay rows values and filters now rows
are the most important because you will
need to add in the customer search term
so that means that all of the black nike
shoes search terms are now all going to
be into that one row of data then what
you'll do is move your video
and you'll click on not columns but
values okay so values is what adds up
all the metrics you want
so let's say we want to see add traffic
so click on impressions we definitely
want to see clicks we want to see sales
we want to see spend
if you want to add in other things such
as
cost per click
such as acos
what you'll see is huh
a one thousand dollar cost per click is
quite a lot
age two thousand plus eight costs is
quite a lot that's because you'll see
they're summarized by some okay so with
these data points that are more based on
an average you'll want to change that to
average okay
otherwise you can go through and do the
manual calculations
so then we're going to go to filters now
filters are reasonably optional you know
you don't have to use filters by any
means but this means you can look at the
data for whatever you want because more
likely than not you're going to have a
lot more rows of customer search terms
so let's say that you just want to see
all your branded terms come up this will
be a way that you would use a filter for
the customer search term all right so
you would clear it all and type in only
your branded search term
um and then it will show you
only those search times
now the other part of that is that
you'll often want to kind of see the
sales or kind of visualize everything in
an order
that's when you have to scroll back up
and go back to rows and then you put in
the order here and the most common of
course what you do is descending based
on sales so that's when you get the top
sales
right at the top and then descending
down and the reason why i say that is
because if you try to put on a filter uh
it is going to kind of constantly revert
back you'll see like that cool and so
that is how you use and start setting up
pivot tables in google sheets
now of course the pivot table can get
infinitely more complex and you can play
around with a lot of different filters
and values and things like that
but we just want to kind of get started
give you a really nice foundation so
that you can eventually start to learn
um some of the more complex aspects of
pivot tables but really quickly i'll go
through all of the key steps so if you
ever want to kind of revise what you had
to do to get this started you can come
back to this title screen here step one
is to click on the data drop down menu
select pivot table and then create
then step two go to the rows and then
customer search term step three click on
the values okay and add in any data
points you want to be combined whether
that's traffic impressions cost per
click whatever but really pay attention
to some versus average
then step four you'll choose your
preferred order and you'll do that by
going back up to this rows
feature here and step five which is an
optional kind of step uh you can filter
the data based on whatever you want so
if you want to see it for a custom
search terms on your branded sessions
competitor name or if you just want to
see the search terms that have over 10
clicks whatever it is uh that is where
you will find that in the filter well
thank you guys so much for watching
don't forget to subscribe to the better
ams youtube channel check out our blog
and of course find me on linkedin if you
guys have any questions in the meantime
about how to use pivot tables or how
you're going with this kind of analysis
on your search term reports don't forget
to leave it down in the comments below
thanks everyone